based on the flash unit you're about to
see I'm going to make a prediction the
used market for strobes is going to get
a lot busier when photographers start
trading up to these new off-camera flash
units from Pro photo
years ago when I first started using
small flashes and studio strobes I never
imagined that the state-of-the-art
lighting could look and work like this
this is the new Profoto b1 500 air TTL
off-camera flash and I was able to test
a couple of them
it's an incredible blend of studio
strobe power TTL capability and cordless
convenience from the lighting experts at
Pro Photo Pro shooters know that you
need to use small flashes for certain
things because they have capabilities
that studio strobes don't and vice versa
but these lights change what's possible
to begin with this is a quality piece of
gear that weighs under 7 pounds with the
battery installed the look the feel and
the operation are very well thought-out
and just what you'd expect from Pro
Photo the controls on both the optional
transmitter and the back of the flash
unit itself are easily read and set up
is incredibly simple and what makes this
flash so great is the specs and how it
really follows through on high-tech
promises I turned on the light easily
understood all the controls without a
manual mounted and turned on the
optional Profoto air remote TTL see on
my Canon 6d and captured a well lit shot
on the very first click now I'm a bit of
a gear nut and I actually don't mind
reading manuals but it's such a pleasure
when a piece of high-tech gear just
works the Profoto b1 500 air TTL off
camera flash is a 500 watt second strobe
with a 20 watt LED modeling light now
that modeling light is equivalent to a
70 watt tungsten bulb and you can have
it off proportional to the flash power
or it can be on full flash power has a 9
stop range and it can be adjusted in one
tenth of a stop or full stop increments
directly on the unit or from the
optional remote I should point out that
if you're using the remote for TTL
control you can add or subtract up to
two stops of light so let's look at the
TTL control
this optional Profoto air remote TTL c
operates TTL or through the lens metered
flash exposure for Canon cameras and the
nikon version called a TTL n is due to
be released in 2014 you can control up
to three groups of lights and the spec
sheet says that TTL control can be up to
three hundred and thirty feet away then
with manual non TTL control it can work
at up to a thousand feet although that
would depend on your environment and if
there's any interference in the 2.4
gigahertz frequency band where this unit
operates now here's something especially
cool about the Profoto TTL control you
can start in TTL mode get your flash
exposure set by snapping a shot and then
flip the controls over to manual and
whatever the power setting was for your
TTL exposure will be your starting point
for your manual exposure you don't have
to start from scratch when you flip to
manual like you do with some other
systems when you're shooting at full
power the flash recycle is only one
point nine seconds and you get two
hundred and twenty full power pops from
a fully charged battery and as you
reduce your power you'll get hundreds
more flashes recycle time drops to 0.1
seconds at low power and the flash
duration is amazing in normal mode where
color temperature is a top priority
flash duration is one one thousandth of
a second at full power and 111
thousandth of a second at low power then
if you set the flash to freeze mode
where brief flash duration takes
priority low power T zero point five
flash duration is as brief as 119
thousandth of a second and there's even
a strobe mode that flashes up to twenty
times a second assuming you can get your
hands on a camera that can keep up with
that
I can imagine some photographers who get
this kind of versatility for the first
time will spend weekends in the studio
and backyard freezing sports or flowing
water mid pour the flash comes with a
standard charger that recharges the
battery to full power in a cup
of ours but there's an optional quick
charger that does the job in one hour
the slower charge rate is better for
battery conditioning now personally I
would just buy an extra battery instead
of the fast charger for how I prefer to
work there's also an optional car
charger that works at about the same two
hour rate as the included charger one
really nice touch with these batteries
is that there's an onboard gauge to tell
you how much power each battery has you
don't need to install it and power up a
flash unit just to get a battery power
reading the unmodified light from the
Profoto b1 500 air TTL is a smooth 77
degree light source coming from soft
Opel protective glass the color
temperature is 5,600 degrees Kelvin and
in normal mode it only fluctuates plus
or minus 150 degrees Kelvin over the
entire power range and only plus or
minus 20 degrees from flash to flash in
freeze mode with those super brief flash
durations it still only fluctuates 800
degrees over the entire power range and
only 50 degrees Kelvin from flash to
flash if you want to modify the light
you can use traditional pro photo
mounted light shaping tools or the
umbrella mount shaft for more than a
hundred and twenty options to control
and shape the light this unit is so
versatile reliable and easy to set up
and use it can turn practically any
environment into a well-lit studio
without a single wire or cable for power
or controlling the flash now that you
know about the Profoto b1 500 ere TTL
off camera flash I bet you see
possibilities in a whole new light for B
and H and Kel be training I'm Larry
Becker thanks for watching whether
you're a hobbyist or a professional bnh
has the answers to your questions
experience a world of technology at our
new york city superstore connect with us
online or give us a call our staff of
experts is
to help
Scott Kelby here and welcome to this
quick tour of our online training we
have hundreds of online classes for you
covering everything from widening the
landscape photography from portrait
photography to sports we have classes on
wedding automotive photography shooting
food fashion travel you name it the most
incredible part of this is the price you
get all of this for just one hundred and
ninety nine dollars a year or you can
pay monthly for just 24.95 twenty four
hours a day seven day a week access from
anywhere in the world I invite you to
join with us today and start learning
right now